Title: Current Situation
Date: 2015-07-11 00:55
Author: Project Tox
Category: Uncategorized
Status: published

As many of you in the Tox community have likely already heard, a serious
situation was brought to our attention which has forced the
Tox development team to disassociate itself from the Tox Foundation,
along with its sole board member, Sean Qureshi (aka Stqism, aka
AlexStraunoff, aka NikolaiToryzin). We learned by Sean’s own
admission that he "took a loan against the Tox Foundation", and used the
entirety of the foundation’s funds on personal expenses completely
unrelated to the project. He did not inform anyone about his actions
prior to taking them, then proceeded to disappear for weeks once we
found out, ignoring our attempts to contact him and get an explanation.

The exact amount that he took is unknown due to his having complete
control over our finances, but it is in the low-thousands. This fund
regrettably included a small amount of donation money, but was primarily
made up of money that we received by participating in Google Summer of
Code last summer.

First, we want to sincerely apologize to the community and take
responsibility. We could not have predicted that something like this
would happen, but we certainly could have handled our finances in a more
responsible and transparent manner. While our development team consists
of many skilled programmers and designers, none of us are experienced in
business or financial matters. This led us to put too much trust and
power into the hands of a single person, who turned out to be just the
sort of person who would take advantage of such a situation. We can
blame no one but ourselves for this.

Unfortunately, Sean refuses to take responsibility for what he has done,
and seems to carry the attitude that what he did was perfectly
acceptable. Despite our having spent a great deal of time and effort
trying to engage with him, giving him opportunities to pay us back and
redeem himself (which is part of the reason why we have waited this long
to make an official post about it), he has shown no remorse for his
actions, and continues to hold some of our infrastructure "hostage".
This includes the tox.im, toxme.se, and libtoxcore.so domains. For this
reason, we have have also been forced to disassociate ourselves with the
aforementioned domains and begin again from scratch with a new domain,
tox.chat.

In spite of the damage that has been done—which we do not wish to
understate—we'd like to look on the bright side of things and consider
this a very expensive lesson learned in project management, and life in
general. We've lost some money, but we've gained a ton of insight. We
have also been lucky enough to have a few long-standing members of the
community step up and help us out with things like server management,
and we should have everything back to normal in a short while, with a
stronger and better equipped team than before.

As far as finances go, we are not going to repeat the same mistakes
twice. We will not be taking any official donations\* until we have set
up a proper organization with an emphasis on transparency and protection
of assets (more details on this at a future date).

In the mean time, we hope that you will continue to support us, if not
financially, then in spirit. Despite all of this drama, we have not lost
sight of our vision to provide secure, private communications for
everyone. Tox development hasn't had so much as a hiccup in the midst of
all this; our second run at Google Summer of Code is going better than
our first, and the number of enthusiastic developers who share our
vision continues to grow.

Thank you for your understanding and continued support.

\* If you still want to give personal donations to individual
developers, most of us have bitcoin wallets or paypal accounts and can
be reached in IRC ([\#tox](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#tox)
and [\#tox-dev](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#tox-dev) @
freenode)
