Title: SCaLE 14x Post-Mortem
Date: 2016-02-08 21:18
Author: zero-one
Category: Uncategorized
Tags: SCaLE14x, The Tox Project, Tox leaving the basement for once
Status: published

For those who aren't aware, The Tox Project was an exhibitor at this
year's [Southern California Linux
Expo](https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x), one of the largest
Linux and FOSS-related conventions in the U.S. We were there to spread
awareness of Tox and The Tox Project, and to get some feedback from the
community regarding our work.

My experience at SCaLE started out with the excellent [Friday morning
keynote](https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x/presentations/no-matter-whos-winning-war-general-purpose-computing-youre-losing)
by the EFF's Cory Doctorow (who later dropped by our booth to chat).
Afterward, I went to check out our booth space on the expo floor and set
up. It's an interesting feeling to be setting up your booth with nothing
but some stickers, a laptop, a vinyl banner, and a television, while HP
and Facebook at the neighboring booths are hauling in truckloads of
mainframe servers, custom-built networking switches, and the like to
show off. However, despite our small-fry stature, I think that The Tox
Project did pretty well for itself.

Over-all, the experience was extremely positive. Many of the expo
attendees that stopped by our booth had already heard of Tox, or had
used it before in some capacity. Everyone had good things to say about
our efforts; the large amount of moral support we received was very
encouraging. Our logo is also apparently very popular; we ran completely
out of our die-cut Tox lock logo stickers, and were left with only 3
small stacks of our rectangular stickers, so I'm looking forward to
seeing those Tox stickers pasted everywhere! Here are some up-close
pictures of the stickers we brought:

![MjzYspf](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/MjzYspf.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-274 width="1632" height="917"}

\[caption id="attachment\_275" align="alignnone" width="1632"\]![Our
die-cut Tox lock logo
sticker](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/EgZVNFp.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-275 width="1632" height="917"} Our die-cut Tox lock logo
sticker\[/caption\]

One thing was made very clear to me during the expo by attendees that
came to the booth; Tox fills a niche in free software that very
seriously needs filling. There is a need and want for something like Tox
both at home **and** at the workplace by more people than you can count.
Tox has seen some pretty rough times, and isn't yet in the best of
possible shapes, but we have incredible staying power, in large part
because of the widespread desire for a drop-in Skype replacement that
doesn't abuse its end-users. Because of this staying power, we're
improving, and will always continue to do so.

In addition, a few of the things we already know were made more evident;
Tox is not going to see wide adoption until we solve a few very big
technical problems. Tox needs **distributed** solutions to the
multi-device problem, the name-to-ID mapping problem (currently worked
around with [ToxMe](https://toxme.io/)), and the offline messaging
problem. None of these problems are impossible to solve, they're just
very difficult to do correctly. We've already seen at least one proposal
for a solution, but nothing that we can implement immediately; we need
more manpower for research and implementation. On that note, if you (or
someone you know) are a strong C programmer with experience in
distributed systems, and you're looking for a FOSS project to contribute
to, drop us an email at leadership@tox.chat, and we'll be glad to get
you up to speed.

There isn't much more for me to fill you in on, with regard to SCaLE. We
spoke to very many people, and I think that we were successful at doing
what we came to do.

All-in-all, SCaLE has left me refreshed. I'm glad that I'm able to start
this year with a renewed vigor for The Tox Project, and I look forward
to us continuing our mission to enable free and secure exchange of
information via Tox.

Shout-outs to [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/),
[Snowdrift](https://snowdrift.coop/), [Open Source
Initiative](http://opensource.org/), and all of the other awesome
exhibitors that we got a chance to meet with at SCaLE. And a shout-out
to my good friends *whyt* and *swiss*, for volunteering some of their
time at our booth.

In case you didn't catch them on our Facebook/Twitter, here are a few
pictures from the event. They include Chuong Vu, an ObjcTox developer,
Greg Mullen (grayhatter), the main developer of uTox, and myself
(zero-one).

\[caption id="attachment\_276" align="alignnone" width="1632"\]![Setting
up the booth before the expo floor opens to the
conference-goers](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/5e3G07P.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-276 width="1632" height="917"} Setting up the booth before the
expo floor opens to the conference-goers\[/caption\]

\[caption id="attachment\_277" align="alignnone" width="1632"\]![Chuong
Vu (right) and myself (left) getting ready to show off some Tox
clients.](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/yXhHvN5.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-277 width="1632" height="917"} Chuong Vu (right) and myself
(left) getting ready to show off some Tox clients.\[/caption\]

\[caption id="attachment\_278" align="alignnone" width="1632"\]![Greg
Mullen (left) and Chuong Vu (right) explaining Tox to an expo
attendee](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/IZ6H92X.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-278 width="1632" height="917"} Greg Mullen (left) and Chuong
Vu (right) explaining Tox to an expo attendee\[/caption\]

\[caption id="attachment\_279" align="alignnone" width="1632"\]![Chuong
Vu (near) and Greg Mullen (far) explaining Tox to an expo
attendee](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/Q6J17uS.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-279 width="1632" height="917"} Chuong Vu (near) and Greg
Mullen (far) explaining Tox to an expo attendee\[/caption\]

\[caption id="attachment\_280" align="alignnone" width="1632"\]![Having
a good time at dinner. Pizza and calzones,
yum!](https://blog.tox.chat/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/SFoH36w.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-280 width="1632" height="917"} Having a good time at dinner.
Pizza and calzones, yum!\[/caption\]
